<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a9iC52XTWP8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

We aimed to develop a mobile application that swiftly provides consumer-focused information about nearby businesses. Utilizing AR technology, the app will overlay visual information panels onto the device's camera screen when aimed at an establishment, offering details, descriptions, and reviews. This approach intends to address the time-consuming nature of existing review apps by delivering immediate information about surrounding establishments, enhancing real-time decision-making for consumers.
 
The AR technology utilized in the app overlays virtual images onto the device's camera lens based on the user's location and orientation, enabling quick access to information about nearby restaurants, stores, and other businesses. Our motivation stems from the need to offer users descriptions, ratings, and reviews in seconds, improving decision-making processes. This app seeks to revolutionize the consumer experience by providing an efficient, "real-time" exploration of surroundings through Google API and an AR lens.
 
Existing solutions, such as Yelp and Google Maps, offer information but require time-consuming searches, especially in fast-paced environments. Our solution will instantly display pertinent information when the user points their device towards an establishment, eliminating the need for extensive searches and allowing users to engage more seamlessly with their surroundings.

The AR Street View Reviews app has two main features: a live camera display of the surroundings and a details page for tapped locations. The app's main screen is real-time camera view with AR pop-ups for identified locations, facilitating interaction for accessing details. The user interface prioritizes intuitive markers for location interaction. The front-end, developed in Unity, utilizes ARCore and geospatial capabilities for an immersive AR experience. The app’s backend algorithm gathers nearby establishment data and displays the data upon interacting with the AR visuals. The algorithm involves retrieving user location via GPS or Network and performing a Nearby Search request from Google Places API to access data from establishments within a set range. Details pages are populated using Google Places API, which provides comprehensive information. This design approach focuses on an intuitive interface, leveraging location data and AR technology to provide real-time, comprehensive information about nearby establishments.

Throughout implementation, we encountered pivotal design choices aimed at streamlining code and enhancing application efficiency. Initially planning to use Java in Android Studio for the app with Unity for AR elements, we transitioned entirely to Unity and refactored the code to C# due to Unity's ease in developing AR elements.
 
Originally, our backend approach involved a single API call to Google API, potentially overpopulating place objects with unnecessary information. To optimize space and app performance, we modified the approach: making a Nearby Search API call to locate surrounding places and making a separate Place Details API call for detailed information on selected places, reducing unnecessary data processing.
 
Initially relying on directional compass data to filter locations within the user's line of sight, we later discovered the powerful geographic mapping capabilities in the Cesium package. This prompted a shift in approach: pre-generating AR objects based on all locations within a certain radius of the device, leveraging geospatial mapping to ensure active objects remain relevant within the device's proximity, eliminating the need for constant display generation and destruction based on the user's orientation.
 
These design adaptations aimed to simplify coding, reduce unnecessary data processing, and optimize the app's efficiency during its development cycle.

Throughout development, comprehensive testing was conducted to ensure component functionality, accuracy, and integration to maintain the app's quality and functionality. Testing the Google Places API involved manually calling API requests, which showed accuracy in retrieving nearby places based on user location. Tests on anchoring visuals in 3D space showed reasonable performance, maintaining anchor positions well except when lacking VPS services. Ensuring device compatibility with enabled GPS and VPS services was deemed essential for stable anchor placement. Evaluation of the spawner's functionality indicated successful translation of Google API location coordinates into accurate anchor points within the AR environment. Further refinement was initiated to optimize the spawner's precision and consistency across multiple coordinate points. The out-of-range deletion process effectively removed anchor points beyond a set distance from the user's location, maintaining a clutter-free display. The test affirmed the system's capability to manage rendered objects within the user's immediate vicinity. These tests and evaluations aimed to refine each component's functionality, address inconsistencies, and ensure the app's optimal performance and user experience.

The project aimed to achieve three key objectives: develop a backend algorithm for location searching, create interactive AR badges based on real-world coordinates, and integrate these components for a functioning demo by mid-November 2023. Early use and testing of Google Places API in a Java prototype were impacted by an API update, requiring adaptation to the new format. Transitioning to Unity from Java extended backend development but didn't hinder completion. AR implementation faced delays exploring various packages and interaction issues, causing a timeline extension. Integration challenges, due to prior delays, were mitigated once backend algorithms were completed and AR issues resolved, enabling faster integration, albeit missing the final demo deadline. 

Utilizing free development software and open-source packages like Unity, Visual Studio Code, ARCore, Map Tiles, and Cesium minimized expenses. A free trial of Google's APIs, offering $300 credit, incurred minimal costs per API call, not reaching the maximum credit during development. Device borrowing from an academic department and personal phones avoided additional costs, making the project largely cost-neutral due to its open-source nature.
